
Network based scoring models to improve credit risk management in peer to peer lending platforms 

Giudici P., Hadji-Misheva B., Spelta A.

Financial intermediation has changed extensively over the course of the last two decades. One of the most significant change has been the emergence of FinTech. In the context of credit services, fintech peer to peer lenders have introduced many opportunities, among which improved speed, better customer experience and reduced costs. However, peer-to-peer lending platforms lead to higher risks, among which higher credit risk: not owned by the lenders, and systemic risks: due to the high interconnecdness among borrowers generated by the platform. This calls for new and more accurate credit risk models to protect consumers and preserve financial stability. In this paper we propose to enhance credit risk accuracy of peer-to-peer platforms by leveraging topological information embedded into similarity networks, derived from borrowers’ financial information. Topological coefficients describing borrowers’ importance and community structures are employed as additional explanatory variables, leading to an improved predictive performance of credit scoring models.

Keywords: FinTech, Peer-to-Peer Lending, Credit Scoring Models

--------------------------------------------------------------

Description : 'Using a dataset containing financial data of borrower companies, 
we define a metric that provides the relative distance between companies by applying 
the standardized Euclidean distance between each pair of institutions feature vectors. 
The fully-connected nature of this set does not help to find out whether there exist 
dominant patterns of similarities between institutions. Therefore, the extraction of 
such relevant patterns demands a representation of the system where sparseness replaces 
completeness in a suitable way. To accomplish this purpose, we derive the Minimal Spanning 
Tree representation of borrowing companies finanical similarities. Finally, we test whether 
the inclusion of topological information regarding similarity patterns among companies feature, 
increases the forecasting performance of various credit scoring models.'
 
Keywords : 
 - FinTech
 - Peer-to-Peer Lending 
 - Credit Scoring Models
 - Similarity Networks 
 - MST 

See also : 

Author : Branka Hadji Misheva, Alessandro Spelta  

Submitted :  27.02.2019 by Branka Hadji Misheva and Alessandro Spelta  

Datafile : smaller_dataset.csv, model_perf.R, RPackages.R, FinTech_SM.R

Example : 'Comparison of predictive performance of traditional and network-augmented scoring models.
MTS representation of the system.'
